2 BANANA BREAD RECIPE (BANANA BREAD WITH 2 BANANAS)

This 2 banana bread recipe creates a delicious banana bread that uses only two bananas. Sometimes, you run out of bananas and only have 2 bananas left at home (versus the 3 needed to make most banana bread recipes)!

Therefore, instead of making a special trip to the supermarket to buy more bananas, here is an easy “emergency” recipe to produce a great-tasting banana bread with only 2 bananas.

2 BANANA BREAD RECIPE (BANANA BREAD WITH 2 BANANAS)
This 2 banana bread recipe creates a delicious banana bread that uses only two bananas. Sometimes, you run out of bananas and only have 2 bananas left at home (versus the 3 needed to make most banana bread recipes)!

Therefore, instead of making a special trip to the supermarket to buy more bananas, here is an easy “emergency” recipe to produce a great-tasting banana bread with only 2 bananas.

Problem – Oh No! I Have Only 2 Bananas. What Do I Do?

2 Bananas for a Banana Bread Recipe
Recipe Sections

Ingredients
Instructions
Helpful Tips
Recipe Comments
Recipe Rating
4.99 from 61 votes
Featured Comment
Dawn “This is a great banana bread recipe for a weekend when you find two brown bananas left over. It comes together quickly. The flavor is understandably not as strong as a three banana recipe, but it is a full and moist loaf. I substituted lactose free milk and chopped pecans. Delicious!”
The secret is to replace the missing banana with something commonly found in your refrigerator. There should be no need to run to the supermarket to buy missing bananas… or scramble to find some crazy banana substitutes. I like to use milk as a simple banana substitute (if I am missing a singular banana when I am making a banana bread). Milk adds the necessary moisture and doesn’t overwhelm the banana taste of the 2 bananas. Moreover, the mild flavor of milk seems to enhance the taste of the “cake” ingredients contained in a banana bread.

Solution – Make Delicious 2 Banana Bread!

2 Banana Bread Recipe
FYI – Many other recipes cut their ingredients by 1/3 when they have only 2 bananas. However, this results in a short mini-sized banana bread (which often has too much crust and/or is too dense). I would rather create a delicious normal-sized banana bread… that uses 2 bananas and a little milk. However, does this 2 banana bread recipe have the same banana flavor as a 3 banana bread recipe? No. It has a nice banana flavor but not as much as a standard 3 banana recipe. It is best as a good “emergency” recipe if you find yourself in a situation with only 2 ripe bananas. However, we also show you below how to add chocolate chips, blueberries, etc. in order to make this banana bread with 2 bananas even better!

This 2 banana bread recipe takes me about 10 minutes or so to prepare and clean up (excluding the baking time). Please be aware that this is an oven-baked banana bread recipe. It is not made with a bread machine. You will also find a printable and “pin-able” recipe at the bottom of this page.

Ingredients

2 – Bananas (ripe & LARGE sized) – 230 grams – The 2 large bananas should equal roughly 1 cup of mashed bananas. See the tips section below if you have less than a cup of mashed bananas.
2 – Eggs (large)
1/2 Cup – Unsalted Butter (softened) – 115 grams – 1/2 cup equals 8 tablespoons – Instead of butter, you can also use 1/2 cup of vegetable oil (118 milliliters). See the tips section below for more information.
1/3 Cup – Milk – 77 milliliters – You can also use sour cream or plain Greek yogurt.
1/2 Cup – White Granulated Sugar – 100 grams
1/2 Cup – Light Brown Sugar (packed cup) – 107 grams
2 Cups – Flour (all purpose flour) – 240 grams
1 Teaspoon – Vanilla Extract – 5 milliliters
1 Teaspoon – Baking Soda – 5 grams
1 Teaspoon – Baking Powder (aluminum free) – 4 grams
1/2 Teaspoon – Salt – 3 grams
Optional – 1 Cup – Chocolate Chips, Chopped Walnuts, Fresh Cranberries (Not Dried), etc.
Servings – Roughly 12 slices

Equipment Needed – Measuring cup & spoons, mixing bowl, long wooden spoon, 9 by 5 bread pan, oven mitts, silicone spatula, cooling rack and an oven.

Instructions

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
If necessary, grease/spray the bread pan or use baking parchment paper to line the bread pan.
Mash bananas with a fork.
Lightly beat eggs.
Soften the butter in a microwave.
Stir bananas, eggs, butter (or oil), milk and white & brown sugars together in a large mixing bowl. Mix until fully blended.
Mix in remaining ingredients. Stir until the batter is fully mixed.
Optional – If you want to enhance this 2 banana bread recipe, you can stir in 1 cup of your family’s favorite dessert ingredient (i.e. chocolate chips or chopped walnuts) after you have mixed the batter.
Pour the finished batter into a nonstick bread pan. Smooth out the top of the batter within the bread pan.
Bake in the oven for 60-65 minutes at 325 F or until golden brown.
Take bread pan out of oven and let the banana bread cool down in the bread pan for 10 minutes. Do not remove the banana bread from the bread pan during this 10 minute cool down period. Use oven mitts as the bread pan will be very hot coming out of the oven.
Optional – Right after taking the bread pan out of the oven, use a long wooden skewer (or toothpick) to test if the banana bread is completely cooked. Wear oven mitts as the bread pan will be hot. See the tips section for more details on this classic “toothpick” test.
After 10 minutes, remove the banana bread from the bread pan. Place the banana bread on a cooling rack in order to completely cool. This cool down may take 1-2 hours. Gently slide a silicon spatula between the banana bread and the bread pan walls if the banana bread is stuck in the pan.